# Source code

## Do not accept undocumented code

Do not accept badly documented or badly tested code into the project.
Sometimes it is tempting when the feature is nice and something you have been
wanting for a long while but have not yet been able to do yourself.
You. Must. Resist. It will haunt you and bounce back at you in the future and
bite.

## Many bug-fixes address symptoms

In line with that, most first version patches and fixes you get from
contributors (who by their nature most often are not long timers in the
project) will fix the symptoms of bugs rather than the actual causes. Digging
up the real underlying cause and its reason can be a lot of work and by nature
people avoid "a lot of work" if at all possible...

## Newcomers can make miracles too

There are lots of clever people in the world. Just because a person never
contributed before does not mean the person is not really bright and
smart. Sometimes you get the best patches and help from people you never met
before and who moves on the next day never to come back. The Open Source
community can be a warm and fuzzy place!

## Only actual releases get widely used

Only proper releases get tested for real. You can beg users to try pre
releases or beta packages, but only once you actually release a "stable"
release you will get the extent of the testing that you want and need. That
includes if you for example mark something deprecated or obsoleted it does not
matter at all even if they remain so for an extended period of time as it will
only be truly effective until you ship the first release with the change and
then people will react (and some will yell at you).

## Once merged, you own it

If you merge someone's incomplete patch because it shows progress and is in
the right spirit, be prepared to finish off all the other details yourself
since the merge is often seen as the final station for contributors. You need
to reject and ask for improvements before the code goes in to make sure the
contributor stays willing to work on and polish the code.
