# Expect this

Open Source means working in the open with people from all over. Humans from
all places and positions in life. From different continents, cultures, ages,
religions, languages, time zones and keyboard layouts. You can expect some of
those to act and speak in surprising ways, but you can also get new unexpected
friends that will take the Open Source project to new levels.

## Negative feedback

Writing and participating in Open Source you can get quite a lot of feedback
due to the open nature of what you are doing and ease with which people often
can find you and direct their comments to you and your community.

Out of all the feedback you will get to a typical project, not even 10% will
be positive. Most of the things and features that just work will go on without
comments while you will hear a lot from bugs and flaws or things people do not
understand as easily. Being an Open Source project maintainer means you should
grow thick skin to endure a fair amount of criticism.

It is good that you get to know about the problems, then you can work on
fixing them!

## Insulting attitude

Occasionally when people find problems or design decisions in your project or
product that they disagree with, they will deliver this message to the project
in an aggressive way (reasons for this may involve that digital communication
make blunt tools, language barriers and more). Do not be surprised to read
insults and insinuations about not knowing what you are doing even if you have
worked on the project for ten years and this bug reporter tried it for the
first time yesterday... One of the hardest things to do as a maintainer is to
bite your tongue and answer politely and friendly. You will not gain any bonus
points nor any new friends by lowering yourself to the attacker's level and
(try to) deliver insults back.

You will learn that you have chosen the wrong language (no matter which
language you use), the wrong technology (either its too old, too stupid, too
clever or whatever that can be wrong), that your software does not solve the
problem the user has (even if it never was meant to do what the user wants it
to do or if the person simply has not understood how to make it do it). And
you will get told this in a hostile way.

As you want your project to ooze of friendliness and cooperation, you do not
want a sour message from a project maintainer to remain in the public to scare
off future users or contributors. Keep a good tone when responding, even to
those who have done nothing to deserve it.

This way of delivering a message is bad and wrong, but you should still be
prepared that it will happen.

## People use your code without telling

Getting your code into Linux distributions or into other commercial unix
distributions or companion packages etc is great fun but happens without you
getting to know about it, and you also rarely get any comments or feedback
from those users.

Heck, even other application authors or product manufacturers will just get
your stuff and use it and not tell you (and neither are they obliged to of
course). Until things do not work as they thought...

## Paid developers still request unpaid volunteers to work for them

The more your product and code is used by people and companies around the
world, the more they (people at said companies) will come back and demand
answers or bug fixes (often rudely, see above) and similar and mention how
they are short on time or whatever. Even though in many cases these persons
have the problem at their daytime paid jobs, while you work on your project on
your spare time...

## Distributors absorb reports

Linux (and other sorts of) distributions that ship your product will at times
"absorb" bug reports since users tend to report them to their distro instead
of the upstream project, and not all distros excel at passing on the bug
reports to and cooperate with the upstream project (us).

Therefore, some legitimate bugs are reported by users but you never see them
and they sit lingering and slowly rottening in some distro's bug tracker...

## Contributors will not stick around

Hardly anyone will stick around. People contribute a lot, but few actually
care for the "big picture" and stay around to work with the project for more
than a short while to get their changes incorporated. You should more or less
expect that the person who just brought you the most excellent bug fix will
not be around anymore once you have pushed their patch...

# Even old and well tested code will be questioned by the know-it-best people

The opposite of the previous paragraph. No matter how well tested and proven a
particular functionality or piece of code is, every now and then the
I-know-better-than-everyone-else person shows up and tells the community how
things really are and how to do things to work correctly. Then it does not
matter if you object, because the newcomer obviously is one of the smartest
persons on the planet. When it happens (when, not if), just stay calm, polite
and use reason and arguments. If that fails, my personal way is usually to
slowly get involved as little as possible in such conversations.

