# Maintain

A *maintainer* is someone who maintains, develops and looks after an Open
Source project. Usually with enough rights to be allowed to push changes to
the necessary repositories.

In large projects, there can be numerous different roles with different people
assigned to them. In smaller projects, there are often just a small set of
people that do everything that needs to be done in an Open Source project. In
many projects there is only one maintainer.

And projects need so much more than just code to strive and succeed.

## BDFL

The **Benevolent Dictator For Life** is a term for an Open Source project
leadership model that is commonly used, where the individual who created the
project remains the leader and ultimately has the final say and veto on
decisions. Oftentimes this power is only implied and silent, not actually
written down or pronounced anywhere.

Like with any dictatorship, it is an effective and speedy model as in it can
avoid long and tiresome debates or voting procedures with a single person's
view and guidance to keep the course straight. If the dictator takes the wrong
turn however, or makes their decrees against what you think is the right way,
the model breaks fairly quickly.

I have worked in several projects with benevolent dictators and I am myself a
BDFL some places. In my view, that is not an ideal way to run a project by any
means. Not even if you are the BDFL. It is hard to know where to go and what
decisions to make. As a BDFL, I have always made a serious effort to listen in
what people say, what they want and where the world seems to suggest is a
suitable place for the project to set its next tent pole.

## Security issues

Taking care of security issues can be a significant undertaking. See
[security](security.md)

## Release management

Releases work best when you can do as much of it as possible in an automated
way. Then you can also do things like automatic nightly archives and you can
verify in CI jobs etc that the scripts work.

I have personally done several hundred releases of my Open Source projects
over the years and single my best advice is: use a check list. It took me a
while to learn this hard lesson myself and I do not how many releases I have
screwed up in my life simply because I forgot some little detail along the
way. I have learned that if I have every tiny little detail in the release
process documented, I can not only make sure that I can follow it and do an
identical release the next time, I can also at some point in a much easier way
hand over that duty to someone else, with great confidence that it will work.

I am a firm believer in release early, release often and I think it has paid
off many times over the years. More releases is better than less. Remember:
[Only releases get tested](code/releases.md).

## Website admin

In a small project, and most Open Source projects are small, you will end up
having to maintain the website as well. I have wrestled with web server
configuration files, hosting providers, HTML tags, understanding CSS classes
and learned more details about HTTP security response headers than I ever
wanted and of course none of that was actually related to the projects I
worked in.

An Open Source project needs a dedicated website. It is not enough to exist on
Gitlab, GitHub or the likes. Those are excellent source hosting and management
services, but they do not replace the need for a proper website. A website
that explains what the projects is, what it does, where the documentation is
and how to get started using etc.

And someone needs to make sure it runs fine and that the contents can be read
and understood.

## Mailing list admin

The tradition of doing most communication in an Open Source project over email
and mailing lists is probably a habit that is dying, but as I am an old
dinosaur I have always made sure my Open Source projects have mailing lists
and associated archives for them so that you can look up mails afterward and
link back to them etc.

Someone then needs to make sure those lists are hosted somewhere, that they
run properly with as little downtime as possible, that there is a decent
amount of spam countermeasures and that the list can properly handle new
people signing up or leaving.

I have had to learn a lot about mail servers and mailing list software.

## Patch reviewing

## User support

## Blogging about it

## Debugging

## Patch merging

## Feature development

## Write documentation

## Event planning

## Getting stickers

## Doing talks

## World monitoring
