# Money

The world is to a large part driven by economic and financial incitements. We
live in a capitalistic society. We need money to pay for food and a roof over
our heads. Open Source maintainers also need money.

## Volunteers make things different

When a large portion, or even all, of the work in a project is done by
volunteers rather than paid staff or employees at a company, the dynamics
becomes a little different than what they are on a typical commercial software
project.

You cannot *demand* or require that someone works on a particular area,
feature or bug as they work on the project voluntarily so they will work on
what they want, when they want to.

Volunteers that show up while working on your project as part of their paid
job most likely did so because they fixed a problem or added a feature that
their employer experienced or deemed important. Not because of priorities you
might have in your project.

A large portion of volunteers makes it hard to plan and predict how and where
the project will go. That is just fine, you just have to learn with and adapt
to it.

Be aware that adding money and compensations to such a project is complicated.
If suddenly someone gets paid for doing things others are doing out of the
goodness of their hearts, people may think of it as an injustice.

 "Why should I do this for free when NN gets paid to do it?"

## Companies pay for features

Being in the core team of a popular Open Source project will lead you to
getting requests to do development for compensation within the realms of that
project. You will learn that companies are at times willing to pay you to get
their desired features added in your project so that they can use it - and
they know that paying a core developer is possibly the best way to get a
feature into a project's mainline code.

You will however rarely see a company offer to help with compensation for
generic bug fixes or other infrastructure things or improvements in the
project. And if you do, you know you are not in a small project anymore!

## Many companies rather not say

I have worked with contract developing in Open Source projects for big and
small companies numerous times. I get contacted by the company that would like
to see a particular feature get added to a project. If the feature suits the
project, the contract pays well enough and I am able to take on the job, I
would accept and do the job.

In more situations than not, the paying company would then ask for and prefer
that I maintain all copyrights for all the changes and that I not make it
publicly noticeable that this was in fact paid for by this company. For the
casual outsider, it appears as if I just had a period if extra motivation and
energy and one fine day delivered this feature.

Why companies would not want to use their sponsoring an Open Source project
for marketing purposes and good will always baffles me. I have heard it
explained by things like that the company does not want their competitors to
so obviously spot that they use this project, but that seems like an odd and
weak argument.

## Getting donations is hard

## You do not get what you pay for

## Starting to charge is difficult

When an existing Open Source project is managed and developed by volunteers
primarily, all of the currently involved "members" who are familiar with the
inside working are probably already employed somewhere and get their paycheck
for doing something (else).

There is then a challenge in then trying to take on paid projects to further
develop the project as the best skilled developers have full-time jobs that
keep them busy on other things and which also in many cases forbid them to
take on contracting jobs on the side as many employees have that mentioned in
their agreements or contracts with their employers.
