# People

Running an Open Source project means interacting and getting involved with
other humans; people. Maintaining Open Source means managing humans, similar
to playing in a soccer team or managing your neighborhood's art club. Humans
are social and complicated creatures.

## People assume everything is well motivated

I repeatedly get reports and issues filed from people who have questions about
stuff in the code or about certain behavior. They assume that since it is done
in a special way in the code it is done so by careful research and precise
coding resulted in those choices and thus they do not complain or ask about it
to us and instead write angry blog posts somewhere else.

The truth is that development is to a large degree evolutionary and unless
someone reports a problem with a particular solution, it often sticks the way
it was done when it was first made to work. Even though it might not be
perfect and perhaps over time turns out to be a rather half-baked way. Many
are also the fixes that are "temporary" and then just never get around to get
modified or fixed. And why change something that works?

Not to mention that most project also have a list of things they would like to
change or fix one day but that nobody ever gets around to actually doing.

## People will contact you privately about the project

You write documentation. You tell users to take issues and questions to the
mailing list, submit issues or post in the public forums etc. Still you will
find that lots of people will send private emails directly to key developers
whose names and addresses people find in docs and email archives and ask
questions or for favors.

People do this to avoid "the flood" of the mailing lists, by being naive about
where issues should be taken and for trying to "take a shortcut" to ask the
person they believe has the answers and would be the one who would answer the
question on the mailing list anyway. There are also a fair share of "I do not
want to air my problem or question in the public because of reasons."

Dealing with issues privately scales terribly. The questions are often similar
and are much better taken care of in public so that many people can learn from
the response and many people can help out to provide the responses in the
first place.

I push back strongly on this behavior and either the user need to take the
issue to the proper public forum, or ask for a support contract setup to
maintain the private discussion.

## People will provide feedback on irrelevant places

Blog posts, twitter posts, stackoverflow... "Please post your bugs in our
tracker", "please ask on our mailing lists " will not help. Just accept that.

If your project reaches some level of success, you may also learn that some
people will hold on to feedback, criticism or even known flaws so that they
rather can write a clever paper about it down the line, or perhaps make a
presentation about it on a security conference.

## Contributors are mostly male white westerners

Getting a fair share of women or people that are not white men from a western
country is hard.

As an Open Source project I think we should all strive to wipe out any kind of
treating people differently depending on some particular characteriscs, be it
sex, religion or whatever. But the harsh reality is that the Open Source world
is still consisting mostly of these stereotypes. And I am one of them, I am no
exception.

## Lower the bar to attract more contributions

## Code of Conduct

## No signed agreements
