# Project

(noun) *"An individual or collaborative enterprise that is carefully planned
to achieve a particular aim."*

## "Just a bunch of people"

An Open Source project is people cooperatively improving a product. People
from somewhere you never met or spoken to before, who want to help improve or
change the project.

Contributors show up and they might have a different idea of what the project
should do and will most likely have another driving force behind their
commitment than you do. Because why would it be the same?

Most Open Source projects are formed around a name somewhere. Perhaps on a
hosting platform that holds source code and offers project admin services. The
name is not always unique, it is not always good and it is not always
describing what the project actually does.

The project is rarely a formal or legal entity anywhere, at least as a start.
Many projects that succeed, later grow up and turn into more formal
organizations, or join other umbrella organizations to become part of them -
and some are even run and owned by companies in the first place that then own
the name and maybe even associated resources. But some projects remain
collected solely under that name.

In most projects there is nothing formal to "join" when you want to start
contributing. You usually just show up, ask questions, answer questions,
submit bug reports or send in your proposed changes and improvements. When
nobody has seen your name or contributions done by you before, you might meet
a level of healthy skepticism and questions, but if you are well-meaning and
do good, you will find friends and get accepted quickly in most communities.
There are virtually no existing Open Source project that will not welcome and
celebrate new and fresh blood contributing to the project.

Usually you get roles and responsibility over time by showing will and skill.
Once you have proven yourself and the face that you stick around, you can
start reviewing others' work or maybe even get responsibilities over areas,
particular services or topics.

## People come and go

As a project maintainer, you learn that people truly come and go all the time.

Without knowing where from or how they found you and your project, you can
find an awesome and well-written improvement provided to the project on a
rainy Tuesday morning from a name you have never seen before. Other times, you
will find the project completely deserted and that you are the only one to
have done any changes to it for an extended period of time.

The contributors who flocked to the project just a while ago and who helped
with so much stuff, added good code and helped answer questions from new
users just suddenly vanish.

The low barrier to entry is also a low barrier to exit. People get bored, they
change jobs, they find spouses, they get kids, they switch to a competing
project - in a sense, every other Open Source project in existence is a
competitor as in they also want the time and energy from contributors and
every contributor only have their limit amount of time and energy to spend on
Open Source.

People will leave your project too. Sometimes in the most inconvenient
moments.

## It is never finished

This is hardly any surprise to anyone, but projects in general tend to never
really get finished and I imagine that Open Source projects in particular
never do as long as there is a certain amount of users. There are always bug
fixes to be made and people will always want to add more tweaks or features
and then we get more bugs and repeat.

Projects typically finish when there are no more users (willing to work on it).

For individual authors and maintainers, the work on a project can of course
end when they decide to just stop participating in that project.

## Over time, you will spend most time on maintenance and support

When starting an Open Source project there is a lot of code to write and to
polish. Maybe even to rewrite. Lots of features to add.

Over time, software projects tend to mature and the speed and frequency of
which you add features slow down and more time is spent on fixing bugs.
Architectural questions become harder and you get more technical dept that
locks you into sticking to certain ways. Or at least they make new features
require a larger effort than they did early on in the project.

I do most of my work in the curl project answering email, trying to reproduce
and understand people's bug reports, clarifying documentation or blogging
about a related subject. Only a small fraction of my curl time is actual
development time.

## Documentation is never good enough

If there is too little documentation or badly phrased, people will not find the
answer there.

If there is too much written on a subject people will not find the answer since
there is too much written and they are only looking for the answer to their
tiny, tiny question.

If there is a FAQ, the exact question the user is looking for is not answered
there.

Heck, even if the documentation is perfect (in your mind), lots of people will
just mail and ask anyway since they believe that is a faster way to get the
accurate answer. Or they do not believe the documentation. Or they for some
reason decide that the perfect online documentation must be out-of-date...

## If not alive, it is dead

An Open Source project that does not update its web site or other resources
within a given time period will appear dead. A project that appears dead are
not updated for reason: because people in the project do not care enough. If
people do not care enough to keep things up-to-date, the project is dead. Yes
sure there are exceptions, but not many... We all look at other projects like
this, we better realize that others look at our projects the same way!

## The world is full of projects

Do not expect contributors and team members to flock around your awesome
idea. In fact, if you just deliver decently good stuff, chances are you may
remain relatively alone in the project... Work to aid people to get into the
project and ease every step, but do not expect them to come.

## Old versions never really die

Suddenly a user will appear out of the blue and report problems or have a
question and it gets revealed that said user has a version of your software
installed that you thought were long forgotten and extinct.

Open Source versions once released find their ways to some places that just
then obviously never again upgrade. But surely, if it works why fix it?

The downside for these users is of course that they then have not gotten any
of the security upgrades you have been shipping the last decade.

Often, slow-moving (or stuck) Linux distributions are blamed for this. "I am
forced to use Linux Y with version Z so I have to use your software version
X".

## Keep. On. Improving.

Q: "How does one stay consistent for so long? I bet you had a lot of great
opportunities and new shiny technology you wanted to play around.

Do you have any personal guidelines that help you staying that long on a
project?"

## Clean up your backyard

## Supervise and help out your "neighbors"

## Open standards are your friends

## The project is we, not "I" nor "you"

## Contributor License Agreements (CLAs)
