# Terms

I will use some of these terms in this book.

## Open Source

The "Open Source" label was created in February 1998 by a team of individuals
who would subsequently create the organization **Open Source Inititive** that
same month.

"Open Source" is a [ten-point definition](https://opensource.org/osd)
declaring that if those requirements are all fulfilled, a software component
qualifies as Open Source. It should allow free redistribution, modification,
derived works, not discriminate against any person or field of endeavor etc.

Proponents of Free Software often underscore that there is a difference
between **Free Software** and **Open Source**, but in practice, looking at the
requirements and the licenses involved, those differences are more distinct in
the commmunities and how they operate rather in how they are defined in text.

Open Source was an effort to create a term that emphasizes the open aspect, as
a more commercially friendly phrase and concept than how many people perceived
**Free Software** at the time.

## Free Software 

The Free Software movement is oriented around the Free Software Foundation
that was created in 1985. Free Software has their [four
freedoms](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html#four-freedoms) that
decide if a software qualifies. The freedom to run it for any purpose, to
study how it works and to change it, to redistribute it and to redistribute
modified versions.

Note that there is no mentioning of *price* or *commercial* in there. Free is
used here as in *freedom*, not as in price or cost.

## FLOSS, FOSS, OSS

**Free and Open Source Software** (FOSS) is a commonly used acronym meant to
include software that qualifies as either Free Software or Open Source.

There are both longer and shorter versions of this being used:

**Free, Libre and Open Source Software** (FLOSS) is an attempt to emphasize
the "libre" part as in freedom and not price.

**Open Source Software** (OSS) leaves out the "Free Software" part but
generally it refers to the same group of software, maybe just not as
technically correct.
