# Firefox

In November 2013 I flew over to the US and visited the Mozilla offices in
Mountain view, California for a day full of job interviews. I think I did
seven of them, back to back, over the course of that day.

In most of the interviews, we soon touched the fact that I was the main author
of curl, I knew my way around HTTP and client networking and got into talking
about specific problems or challenges of the day. They knew I knew HTTP,
networking and Open Source as I had already shown that in the public for
years. They mostly needed to also check if I would work socially in a team in
the real world. I got the job.

Working on the Firefox web browser as a full-time job was quite a difference
compared to the small scale projects I had otherwise mostly kept myself busy
in. In this project there were hundreds of developers, it could end up in
thousands of commits per day and there were more than a thousand new bug
tracker entries filed every single day. The speed and the volume of things
were overwhelming.

Doing Open Source all day, every day, is awesome. Everything is open and you
can share, show and discuss your work with everyone. I could combine
experiences and knowledge between curl, Firefox and HTTP specification work
and all the work could be easily shared and openly discussed. And everyone
involved reaped the benefits.

I worked in the networking team ("Necko") so I got to fiddle with HTTP, DNS,
sockets, cookies etc. Things I knew and liked to fiddle with since before. It
was a perfect job for me. Maybe the biggest downside was C++.

I quit Mozilla in December 2018 without knowing what to do next, but with a
keen interest in trying to see if I could maybe make working on curl full-time
a thing.
