# Rockbox

In the beginning of the twenty-first century, before the smart phones, a new
consumer electronics device started to show up in some households. The
portable mp3 players. Digital music in your pockets for real. To many, the
Apple ipod was the first device that showed the potential but already before
that model, other manufacturers and brands had already released some devices.

One of the first mp3 players on the market was the "Archos Player" with its
massive 6 GB harddrive. My brother Bj√∂rn and our common friend Linus purchased
these devices, only to soon realize that while the device was nice, the
software were lacking several features you would think such a device should be
able to provide. How hard would it be to write our own replacement?

The challenge truly piqued our curiosity. With a lot of reverse engineering
and hard work, we figured out how to replace the software in the devices with
one we wrote ourselves. We then took on other similar devices and within a few
years [Rockbox](https://www.rockbox.org) was a fully Open Source mp3 player
firmware replacement that worked on several dozens of different portable music
players from a handful of different brands. Rockbox was a tiny, simple
operating system made to just have a music player application run. Albeit an
application that could run games, including doom (of course), have better
battery live than the factory firmware and support many more music and audio
formats than the original software did.

We had physical annual developer meetups during several years where Rockbox
contributors from all over the world would unite to hack on code and have a
good time over a weekend.

When the smart phones eventually entered and swiftly conquered the portable
music world, the concept and use of mp3 players faded away and so did my
personal interest in the Rockbox project. I officially stopped participating
in 2014, but by then I was not doing much. I continued to host and run servers
and infrastructure for the project until late 2021.

